Add roll up direction for code graph (#4717)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/direction/code-graph/index.md

## Mission

What is the team's reason for existing? What is the fundamental value they aim to provide? Who are your key customers/stakeholders and why, and are there any customers/stakeholders that you're explicitly choosing not to address that people might have expected you to?

## Vision

### 1 Year vision

> Add a sentence or two here indicating what the most important things you want to achieve/problems you want to solve in the next year are. These should in most cases move your three and ten year visions forward.

### 3 Year vision

> Add a sentence or two here describing what your product will be like in three years, also focusing on the problems you'll solve and the value you'll deliver. This should be grounded in reality, but three years is a lot of time - be ambitious!

### 10 year vision

> A sentence or two on your ten year vision is where you can really go wild and describe the problems you want to solve and solutions you want to deliver unbound by limitations of technology or scope. Be inspiring and look to the our [10 and 30 year strategies](../../company/strategy.md#sourcegraph-strategy) for ideas.

> ## Themes

Reviewer: Product maturity would be a good theme as well. 

On search specifically:
* Commit and diff search remain un-indexed, thus:
  * performance suffers
  * code monitors are limited to 50 repositories, where companies want to monitor their entire code base.
* Structural search does not function at scale
* Contexts are not yet discoverable
* Notebooks show great promise but require 

We are addressing these issues now, but it will be an ongoing effort for some time.

Author: Great one, added @rrhyne

> ### Make it easier to discover the value of the complete Code Graph

Author: This section is trying to speak to https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eUpbs_LxyiM8wujeXQn1Kyv2IBZ0RIZCNwO-CkmdbzE/edit#bookmark=id.so5q28he0ff9, @rrhyne (and everyone) do you feel like it does a good job of that? Are there any supporting resources we should link to in the description text?

Reviewer: Suggestion:
*Provide value to all developers via the Code Graph*

If we make *providing* value the focus, vs. *discover* then we can begin to reduce time to value. This suggests we would focus on efforts such as allowing insights, contexts, batch changes, and code monitors to be sharable and discoverable so that developers can simply toggle them on to get instant value or better yet, a recommendation engine scans their repositories and shows users value immediately.

Author: ```suggestion
### Provide value quickly to all developers via the Code Graph
```

# Code Graph

> The Code Graph comprises teams working on search, insights, code intelligence, and batch changes, and this page describes the overarching mission and strategy that ties them together. Each one also has an individual direction page, indexed from our [direction home page](../index.md#code-graph), that describes what they are working on and why in more detail.

Author: ```suggestion
The Code Graph organization comprises teams working on search, insights, code intelligence, and batch changes, and this page describes the overarching mission and strategy that ties them together. Each one also has an individual direction page, indexed from our [direction home page](../index.md#code-graph), that describes what they are working on and why in more detail.
```

## Mission

We build the Code Graph to make working with code easier, regardless of how much you have, how complex it is, where you store it, or even how technical you are.

## Vision

### One year vision

> > Within the next year, we want to ensure that we are solving the most critical problems for our enterprise users, focusing on retaining existing and acquiring new enterprise customers. By providing as much value as possible to them, we can grow the business while solving the hardest scaling and complexity problems for everyone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> We want to ensure that we are solving the most critical problems for our enterprise users, focusing on retaining existing and acquiring new enterprise customers. By providing as much value as possible to them, we can grow the business while solving the hardest scaling and complexity problems for everyone.
```

Minor – these time bound phrases at the start of the vision sections (three total) are already covered by the subject headings, and IMO it's almost more "shazam!" if we just state it directly without the qualifying phrases, like the toplevel [company vision section does](https://about.sourcegraph.com/handbook/company/strategy#10-year-vision).

### Three year vision

> Within three years, we imagine a much more connected Code Graph experience, not just in terms of the kinds of searching that you're able to do, but in how we can offer suggestions for interesting searches and what you can do with the results. Expanding on capabilities we've introduced recently, such as semantic search, insights, and batch changes, we will offer an unparalleled solution for searching and making decisions across branches, repositories, and even code hosts, beyond even what's possible today.

### Ten year vision

> > At the ten year mark, we want to make using Sourcegraph to understand and modify code so easy that anyone can do it, including people not traditionally considered developers. We want to [democratize coding](../../company/strategy.md##10-year-vision) by making it so that everyone in the company can engage with the organization's code, safely making changes to implement their department's priorities and interests, without need for an intermediary to do it for them.

Reviewer 3: I think there's an extra `#` in that link

Author: Good eye, thanks!

```suggestion
> At the ten year mark, we want to make using Sourcegraph to understand and modify code so easy that anyone can do it, including people not traditionally considered developers. We want to [democratize coding](../../company/strategy.md#10-year-vision) by making it so that everyone in the company can engage with the organization's code, safely making changes to implement their department's priorities and interests, without need for an intermediary to do it for them.
```

## Focus Areas

> Within the Code Graph org, we are focused on several themes right now, which will help us make our one year vision a reality. They are not listed in priority order, as we are pursuing all of them. To see how these play into what any particular product area is delivering, take a look at the individual team direction pages, as indexed on our [direction home page](../index.md#code-graph)

Author: ```suggestion
We are focused on several themes right now, which will help us make our one year vision a reality. They are not listed in priority order, as we are pursuing all of them. To see how these play into what any particular product area is delivering, take a look at the individual team direction pages, as indexed on our [direction home page](../index.md#code-graph)
```

How our product works in terms of pricing, upgrade paths, auditing, single sign-on, access control, and so on are essential for enterprise customers with large, complex organizations. In partnership with our Cloud team, we're focused on ensuring that these elements of our product meet and exceed these needs so that when it comes to rolling out Sourcegraph the logistics of getting set up don't get in the way of realizing the value of Big Code search.

### Deliver a unified Code Graph experience

Code Graph solves real problems today, but investing in the polish, user experience, and cross-feature functionality within our product area to make the experience lovable and help us deliver solutions that are more than the sum of the parts. Code insights can lead you to a more detailed search, from which you might launch a more advanced semantic analysis. From here, you might use batch changes to remediate a problem and then document everything you've done in a search notebook. This flow works today, but we can do more to connect these experiences in ways that deliver more value than engaging with them separately.

### Scale the Code Graph for Big Code

> We have more and more large customers dealing with a lot of code and complexity at scale. It's important that our platform meets their needs, not just in terms of search performance, but in allowing you to explore and understand complex interrelationships of meaning in source code, at the [worlds largest scale](../../company/strategy/index.md#big-code).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We have more and more large customers dealing with a lot of code and complexity at scale. It's important that our platform meets their needs, not just in terms of search performance, but in allowing you to explore and understand complex interrelationships of meaning in source code, at the [world's largest scale](../../company/strategy/index.md#big-code).
```

# Code Graph

The Code Graph org’s builds and scales the Code Graph and how our users interact with it. We are responsible for search (the user experience as well as performance), insights, code intelligence, and batch changes. This page describes overarching initiatives that tie multiple teams and milestones within Code Graph together.

Individual team direction pages within Code Graph can be found on our [direction home page](../index.md#code-graph). For details on how the themes here become reality, as well as what each team is working on next for their individual visions, take a look there.

## Mission

> What is the team's reason for existing? What is the fundamental value they aim to provide? Who are your key customers/stakeholders and why, and are there any customers/stakeholders that you're explicitly choosing not to address that people might have expected you to?

Author: I think the mission of the code graph org, as owners of what is arguably the core product, is the mission of the company: https://about.sourcegraph.com/handbook/company/strategy#mission. We want to provide a search and code interaction experience that enables everyone to code. The cloud team provides the growth engine that generates stability for the company, enablement supports us all, but we provide the product features that make the company mission reality.

What does everyone think?

Author: In general, I think we're the foundation of the `build great, valuable features -> get more users -> convert them to paid` funnel.

Reviewer 4: > We want to provide a search and code interaction experience that enables everyone to code.

I agree with that. Other thoughts I had in that direction that are more specific than "enable everyone to code" (and I'm not sure whether specificity is good or bad here):

- We want to build a product that makes working with code better, independent of the size and rate of growth of the codebase
- Our goal is to enable everyone in every codebase to understand & change the code they're working with

Nothing here rolls off the tongue, I'll admit that, but I think having something separate from the mission of the company is valuable.

Author: Yeah agree, I like where these are headed.

Author: Maybe something in addition to the above two like the following:

- The Code Graph org provides the main features which people use every day to get value out of the product, so it's important for us to focus on delivering paid features that customers feel are worth paying for.
- Free features are also important, because they give people the chance to try Sourcegraph, and see how valuable it is. But, the ultimate purpose of this part of the funnel is eventually converting them into paid users.

These still need wordsmithing too, but the sentiment is there.

I think it would also be nice to also tie the second bullet from your ideas @mrnugget to the company mission.

Author: Applied changes to text

## Vision

### 1 Year vision

> > Add a sentence or two here indicating what the most important things you want to achieve/problems you want to solve in the next year are. These should in most cases move your three and ten year visions forward.

Author: I think once we complete the themes, the one year vision will come to us naturally as the culmination of delivering those.

## Themes

### Provide value quickly to all developers via the Code Graph

Learning what's possible and how to get the most out of Code Graph tends to be trial and error, especially for an individual developer who might have a unique set of use cases and interests that they would search for.

We're introducing a new feature called Insights that brings interesting things to the forefront, and serve as a jumping off point for easily using more advanced features. For example, we could offer an insight that tells you that you have repositories using out of date versions of libraries that you create. This could have a jumping off point to search, allowing the user to learn more about how and where it is being used, as well as a jumping off point for batch changes, if they want to go ahead and update all of them. We could provide a one-click button to subscribe to an alert when they become out of date again in the future.

> Insights like these can also be a way to help people learn that features exist and how to use them, allowing them to adapt something that's already set up to their other use cases. This should help people onboard and see the value of the Code Graph more quickly than just showing them a search bar with syntax and hoping they'll make the leaps.

Author: ```suggestion
Insights like these can also be a way to help people learn that features exist and how to use them, allowing them to adapt something that's already set up to their other use cases. This should [help people onboard](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xF1Fp2y0hxY_CrXMsRbJlWCOI8XHBceiUdivNmh8SlQ/edit#) and see the value of the Code Graph more quickly than just showing them a search bar with syntax and hoping they'll make the leaps.
```

### Grow product maturity for the unified Code Graph experience

The Code Graph solves real problems today, and beyond getting quickly to value, we can invest in the polish, user experience, and cross-feature functionality within our product area to really make the experience lovable. Some examples of improvements here are:

- Commit and diff search remain un-indexed, thus:
  - performance suffers
  - code monitors are limited to 50 repositories, where companies want to monitor their entire code base.
- Structural search does not function at scale
- Contexts are not yet discoverable
- Notebooks show great promise but require polish

> ### Unlock opportunities and win in the enterprise market via improving the Code Graph and how our users interact with it

Author: @yinquanteo would you see these bullets as related to the "growing product maturity for a unified experience" theme, or is this a separate track? It seems like maybe, but being new it's hard to tell.

- Move batch changes functionality server-side to simplify editing the Code Graph
- Invest in differentiated features in searching and navigating the Code Graph. e.g. Better hover navigation, Search contexts, Code Monitoring, Advanced Search, ...

> - Improve onboarding and collaboration working on the Code Graph. e.g. Notebooks

Author: @yinquanteo this specific one might be related to the "provide value quickly" theme.

- Bring the experience of tracking insights on the Code Graph into beta

> ### Scale the Code Graph to ultimately meet the scale needs of our enterprise customers

Author: @yinquanteo might this one be a goal for the search performance team specifically rather than something that all the Code Graph teams are working on across the board?

For example:

- TBD

### Grow product maturity for the unified Code Graph experience

The Code Graph solves real problems today, and beyond getting quickly to value, we can invest in the polish, user experience, and cross-feature functionality within our product area to really make the experience lovable, and deliver solutions that are more than the sum of the parts from the individual product areas. Some examples of improvements here are:

- Commit and diff search remain un-indexed, thus:
  - performance suffers
  - code monitors are limited to 50 repositories, where companies want to monitor their entire code base.
- Structural search does not function at scale
- Contexts are not yet discoverable
- Notebooks show great promise but require polish

> ### Scale the Code Graph to ultimately meet the scale needs of our enterprise customers

Author: I think, in addition to performance scaling, we should include something about the kinds of features you need at an enterprise, like what you find on https://www.enterpriseready.io/. What does everyone think?

Author: Added a focus area about this
